# MCBS Overview
The Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey (MCBS) is a continuous, multipurpose survey of a nationally representative sample of the Medicare population, conducted by the Office of Enterprise Data and Analytics (OEDA) of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) through a contract with NORC at the University of Chicago. The central goals of the MCBS are to determine expenditures and sources of payment for all services used by Medicare beneficiaries, including co-payments, deductibles, and non-covered services; to ascertain all types of health insurance coverage and relate coverage to sources of payment; and to trace outcomes over time, such as changes in health status and spending down to Medicaid eligibility and the impacts of Medicare program changes on satisfaction with care and usual source of care. The MCBS provides important information on health outcomes and social determinants of health not available in the administrative program data.

The MCBS has been collecting data on Medicare beneficiaries for over 30 years and has conducted over 1 million interviews.  The MCBS has three data releases annually as well as an annual Chart Book of key estimates from the survey. The MCBS provides a public use file (PUF) and accompanying documentation free for download on the [MCBS PUF page]([(https://www.cms.gov/data-research/statistics-trends-and-reports/mcbs-public-use-file)].  The MCBS PUF is an easy to use data file with select data items that allow researchers to conduct analysis on access to and satisfaction with healthcare, and medical conditions for Medicare beneficiaries living in the community. Additionally, there are two detailed data releases from the Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey (MCBS) that are released annually which can be obtained directly from CMS and require a data use agreement.  All research requests for MCBS data for the two limited access data releases must be requested through the Limited Data Set File Process.  You will find instructions here: Limited Data Set (LDS) Files.
